Add Kong Gateway Operator docs (#6144)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway-operator/get-started/kic/create-gatewayclass.md

---
title: Create a GatewayClass
content-type: tutorial
book: kgo-kic-get-started
chapter: 2
alpha: true
---

To use the Gateway API resources to configure your routes, you need to create a `GatewayClass` instance and create a `Gateway` resource that listens on the ports that you need.

```yaml
echo '
kind: GatewayClass
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: kong
spec:
  controllerName: konghq.com/gateway-operator
---
kind: Gateway
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1beta1
metadata:
  name: kong
spec:
  gatewayClassName: kong
  listeners:
  - name: http
    protocol: HTTP
    port: 80
' | kubectl apply -f -

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```The results should look like this:
    ```text
    gatewayclass.gateway.networking.k8s.io/kong created
    gateway.gateway.networking.k8s.io/kong created
  ```    
    
```

> You can now run `kubectl get gateway kong` to get the IP address for the running gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `kubectl get gateway kong` to get the IP address for the gateway and set that as the value for the variable `PROXY_IP`.
```

---
title: Create a GatewayClass
content-type: tutorial
book: kgo-kic-get-started
chapter: 2
alpha: true
---

To use the Gateway API resources to configure your routes, you need to create a `GatewayClass` instance and create a `Gateway` resource that listens on the ports that you need.

{:.note}
> **Note:** `Gateway` and `ControlPlane` controllers are still `alpha` so be sure
> to use the [installation steps from this guide](/gateway-operator/{{ page.release }}/get-started/kic/install/)
> in order to get your `Gateway` up and running.

```yaml
echo '
kind: GatewayConfiguration
apiVersion: gateway-operator.konghq.com/v1alpha1
metadata:
  name: kong
  namespace: default
spec:
  dataPlaneOptions:
    deployment:
      podTemplateSpec:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: proxy
            image: kong:{{ site.data.kong_latest_gateway.ce-version }}
            readinessProbe:
              initialDelaySeconds: 1
              periodSeconds: 1
  controlPlaneOptions:
    deployment:
      podTemplateSpec:
        spec:
          containers:
          - name: controller

>             image: kong/kubernetes-ingress-controller:{{ site.data.kong_latest_KIC.version }}

Reviewer 2: @mheap this will work now/today but 1.0.0 does not work fully with KIC 2.12 yet.

Issue: https://github.com/Kong/gateway-operator/issues/1122
PR where CI failed: https://github.com/Kong/gateway-operator/pull/1118

Author: What's the ETA on working with 2.12? I'm planning on bumping KIC docs on Mon next week

Reviewer 2: I'm looking into this in https://github.com/Kong/gateway-operator/pull/1118

Reviewer 2: The above is ready and we should be good to go with using 2.12 (in 1.0.1 or so).
